in this video let us learn how to search a
node in a circular linked list
So how can we search node in a circular linked
list We need to iterate the list and compare
each nodes data with the key
And if any pair is the same then the key
is found
Otherwise the key is not found
For example we have this circular linked list here with
elements 10 20 and 30
So let us search for the key 30
So we need to
Iterate the list starting from the head node and
compare the key with the data
Part of each node first compare 30 with head and
they are not the same
So compare 30 with 20 again
It's not the same
So move to the next node and compare 30 with
this node
Now they are the Same so the search is successful
now let us search for the key 100
So iterate the list starting from head node and
compare the key with data part of each node
So compare 100 with heads data and they are not
the same
Now compare 100 with 20 again
It's not the same
So moved to next node Compare 100 with this nodes
Data Again it's not the same
Now move to the next node and we have reached
the head again
So we check the list completely
And we did not find the key 100 in this
list
So the search operation here is unsuccessful
So this is the code to implement the programme and
the function search will be doing the search operation and
returns the result of search
We are passing the key to be search into this
function and if the search is successful this function will
return true and if it is not the function will
return false
So we have public Boolean search of int key Now
let us search for the key 30 here so called
the function by passing 30 So first we need to
check if the link list is empty
So check If head is equal to null if it
is not it means the list is empty
Hence the search is unsuccessful so straight away return false But
here it is not equal to null we have head
equal 1000 So we need to traverse the list and
compare the key with each nodes data so let us
create temp pointing to head so that we can start
iterating the list
So how can be traverse a circular linked list we
normally use of while loop to iterate a linked
list from head till we reach the next part of
node Equal to null
But here it will not work Since the last node
will be pointing to head again and not to null
so we can use a do
while loop so we have do compare the key and
nodes data and then move to next node and check
the while condition which is temp not equal to head
and when temp reaches the head again The Traversal
is completed
So first check If head has the key so check
If temp dot data equal to key but it is
not so move temp to the next node So temp
is now pointing to 2000
So check if temp is pointing to head if it
is head it means we have completely Travers the linked
list and control will come out of the while loop
But here temp equal to 2000 which is not equal
to head
So start the next iteration and check
If the data at this node is the key so
compare 20 with 30
But it is not the same
So if will fail so jump to the next statement temp
equal to temp dot Next So temp will be holding
the next nodes address which is 3000 so temp now points
to the third node Again The while condition is checked
temp equal to 3000 which is not equal to head
So start the next iteration Now compare Data 30 and
key 30 both are the same
So if will return true here so return true as
the key is found So this is how it works
Now let us see another case where the search key
is not found So let us search The key is 100 first temp is
initialised to head and it first iteration check If this
node has the key So check If temp dot data
equal to key but it is not so Move
temp to the next node So temp is now pointing
to 2000 Now Check if temp is pointing to head
but here Temp equal to 2000 which is not equal
to head So start the next iteration now check if
the data at temp is the key so compare 20 with
100 but it fails so jump to the next statement so
now Temp will point to the third node again the
while condition is checked and we have temp equal to
3000 which is not equal to head
So start the next iteration
Here we compared 30 and the key 100 again
If will fail and temp is moved to the next
node
So Temp equal to 1000 Now now check the condition temp
Not equal to head but it fails so control will
come out of this
Do while Loop and return false as the key was
not formed
So that said that's how it works
Knowledge is talk about the time complexity the best
cases when the search key is present in the first
node itself so the Loop need to execute only ones
So the best case time complexity is order of one
The worst cases when the search key is present in
the last node
So if you have n nodes the loop will have n
iterations
So the worst case time complexity is order of n